## I enjoy writing!

Never thought I would experience that. The written assignments I've enjoyed are
outweighed one hundred to one with those I've despised. No homework was worse
than an English class essay, no task more dreaded than the history report.
Writing didn't interest me. It didn't interest me when it was about science,
education, thinking, reading, there was no topic that was worth it for me to put
on a page.

Last year, I wrote my second statement of purpose for graduate school. The first
was drawn up in an engineering fashion; I organized the single page to talk
about the most important projects I had worked on and the reasons I thought a
Master's program would be good for me. Last year was different. The letter I
wrote felt like the perfect collection of my thoughts on what I had done, a
reflection on my past work. It felt concise and to the point, scientific. I felt
that I had created a piece of art as a reflection of me.

Writing hadn't done that before. 
It wasn't supposed to! I don't enjoy writing and it doesn't enjoy me. 

But something had changed. Something _has_ changed. I'm not certain myself what
it is. It could be the reports I wrote as a graduate student; writing out
academic papers about computer science was intriguing to be sure. The rigor I
had to bestow into the work translated directly onto the paper. It could be the
internal monologue shifted. My thoughts feel more pronounced. They come to my
head clearer now than ever before. I've existed for twenty three and a half
years but only felt awake for the past twelve months.

This new mentality needs to express itself. There is so much more being created
everyday all the time. I have things I need to share; ideas I want to experiment
with; opportunities I need to capture! And more than anything I want to scrawl
them onto a notebook, or type them on my keyboard. Stare at those words and
thoughts as they manifest themselves -- documenting my inner monologue and
freezing it in time. Proof that there is something there.


