Work Ethic

Today in a conversation with my little sister, I wrote that there is no amount
of money that would make me work harder than I currently do.
For context, I am a well paid software engineer who spends about 2 hours of each
day actually focused on working.

I boast that I work from the time I sit down with my chai latte to the time that
the cup is empty.
The truth is I accomplish a reasonable amount of work during that time, and then
enter a pseudo-work state for the rest of the day.
In the afternoon, I find my mind wanders to the book I am reading or the podcast
I was listening to earlier.
I'll still get something done but at maybe 1/5th the pace of my morning rate.

My college roommates and I would jokingly refer to this attitude and work ethic
as "being a shitter."
I lounge most of the day and only accomplish the bare minimum of the work that
needs to happen.

To clarify, I know what hard work is. I know that I can work 60 hours a week and
push the frontier; this is what my Master's degree required.
However I also know what lies on the other side of that peak. 
The absolute destruction of mind and body as you push yourself further simply
isn't worth the money.

There is no amount of money that could push me to work harder. I work simply
because it is what someone is expected to do.
I don't plan to work in the future. I plan to do what I want, and I expect the
money will follow me.
This is the lie that I have been sold since I was a youth, but I will force it
into reality.
My life is transitioning right now, and I do not mind having the experience of a
job, but I will not pour myself into it.

All this said, there are certainly ways to improve my work ethic while at Epic. 
Having an easier more regular access to chai lattes, for one, would greatly
improve performance.
I don't think this would be healthy for me, but it would be healthy for my work,
that's for sure.

Adding accountability to my role would push me to want to perform for others.
Right now I am in isolation, working by myself to learn useless ideas that I
will only have to relearn as they become applicable months down the line.
If I were in a situation that required the use of each framework I learn, the
provided context would give me a greater sense of purpose.
Adding a deadline and potentially a release target would give me accountability.

Finally, clearer smaller chunks of learning would make everything easier.
If I wanted to stay with Epic and thought this were to be my future, I would
definitely be working to rewrite at least 50% of the wikis from an educator's
perspective.
The content might be great, but it can be impossible to read. The fact that they
haven't done this reflects very poorly on them in my opinion.
On-boarding new staff is one of the most important and costly parts of building
a team, and requires adequate resources and attention which they aren't
providing.


