Circles of Influence

*Very rough, under development*

Allow for a moment the perfect representation of your power to be depicted by a
circle.
This circle contains all the actions you can take now and into the future. The
words you can speak, the friends you can make, the power you have.
This circle, I'd argue, is your circle of influence. You cannot influence the
world outside of your circle since if you could, that action would be inside
your circle.
Each action you can take occupies space in your circle, the more possibilities
you have the larger your circle.
The space that an action takes up could be arbitrary, but let's instead give
each action an area proportional to the amount of influence it represents.
This is a grey concept, what is an "amount of influence." I believe it to be an
amount corresponding to how many other actions this action influences. If an
action removes a course of action for someone else, then the first action should
be at least as large as the second.

This is one explanation for what might be simply imagined as your circle of
influence, I only attempt to write it down for the purpose have having a
slightly more unified concept to discuss.

Every person on Earth has one of these circles. Some are larger than others.

I want to know how the relative circles of influence have changed across social
and economic status through time.
Wealth is certainly a primary indicator of circle area, though not the only one.
As an aside, it might be the easiest to quantify, and as a result is the most
studied. There are many studies exploring wealth discrepancy through time and
while these are interesting they do not tell the whole tale.

The average person today has access to a larger portion of the Earth and its
inhabitants than ever before. We can reach by plane to almost any nation with
one day's worth of travel. Through social media and the Internet, we have the
*ability* to contact billions of people. The potential circles of influence must
be massive! Think of the actions we can take!

Yet we don't. The average person will live their life as though they had the
same circle of influence as the Roman peasant two thousand years ago.
The above average person, you might say, will explore. They will travel to other
countries, meet other people and exchange culture.
However, this is no different than the Romans travelling through the
Mediterranean, or the Chinese traversing Asia, the island hopping Polynesians,
or the natives of South America travelling the Incan Road. Travel is easier,
quicker, safer, more accessible but I am not certain it is more prevalent. [He
writes from an airplane full of people travelling for the holidays.]

It is absurd to say it isn't more prevalent, but maybe something easier - it is
not proportionally as prevalent as we might expect. The ease of travel in 1600's
was a heavily limiting factor for many people. Now it is many, many times
easier. Do we see many, many times more people travelling? Conversing with a
person from a foreign land use to be impossible, requiring the luck of a
translator or long arduous gestures and failed communication. Now we have
Google. The limits on influence are disappearing, but I am not certain we are
pushing them as a society anymore. There might be some plateau from which it
won't help to improve. Have we reached that yet, or are we nearing it?

