Book Report #1.

Since starting at Epic in October, I have become a prolific reader. 
In the course of 15 weeks, I have read/listened to more than 25 books ranging
from pop science, to science fiction to philosophy.

My journey has largely been guided by recommendations from friends and family -
it turns out everyone has an opinion on what you should be reading!

The simple two-note system I used to start (tracking books I want to read and
books I have read) worked at the start, and indeed I do continue to update it.
However my ambitions for documenting my reading stretch beyond Notes. From a
typical academically focused mindset, I want to share what I learn.
To an extent, goodreads.com satisfies this goal, but I am always going to
support a choice that I have more control over.
For that reason, I am planning on creating a website which I can tailor to my
exact needs. I'm sure that it won't be a sophisticated as something like
goodreads, and I am certain that a million other blogs like it will exist, but
that is not my point. This is my blog. There are many like it, but this one is
mine.

With that said, I cannot generate a blog I am happy with overnight, and instead
will use these writings as my medium in tempore.

Ratings are out of 5 and follow the goodreads descriptions for now:
    1 - did not like it
    2 - it was okay
    3 - liked it
    4 - really liked it
    5 - amazing!

## The books I've read since October 2019

1. 7 Habits of Successful People
    Author: Stephen Covey

    Rating: 2 - it was okay.

I would not recommend 7 Habits to most people. It is the type of novel that
teaches you simple empathy and calls it revolutionizing.
While I can see that many people can benefit from empathizing more, I think
there are better ways to learn than from a 300 page story book.
Covey lived an interesting life and has plenty of anecdotes that fit nicely
into the themes that he pushes, but in almost every scenario the point is
belabored and could be culled down to a paragraph or two.
    The book did come at a time of change for me, and I value the perspective it
gave me on how relationships should work.

2. Space Cadet
    Author: Robert Heinlein

    Rating: 4 - really liked it.

The first sci-fi novel I've read in quite some time, Space Cadet is part of
Heinlein's Juvenile's series. A beautifully simple and easy read.
I enjoyed Space Cadet in particular _because_ of its simplicity. It is the
type of novel you can pick up and finish in an afternoon.

3. 2001: A Space Odyssey
    Author: Arthur Clarke

    Rating: 3 - liked it.

Coming off the back of Space Cadet, I figured I should explore some more
sci-fi and see what all my father's hype is about.
2001 has a compelling story, but I couldn't stand the introductory
exposition. The description of the evolution of man towards some outer species
projection is so fundamentally human centric it breaks its own logic.
I wanted HAL to take more space as well. There were many allusions towards
HAL's goals, but this thread didn't spin into anything I found interesting. I
noticed the same problem with a future Heinlein book, The Moon is a Harsh
Mistress, but we'll get to that in a bit.
    Overall, was definitely an enjoyable read.

4. Starship Troopers
    Author: Robert Heinlein

    Rating: 4 - really liked it. On the upper end of 4.

Everything about the Space Cadet which I liked, the simple action, lovable
and daring characters, wild sci-fi thought experiments and thinly veiled
political beliefs are exposed in beautiful detail with Starship troopers.
The novel does exactly what I would want from a map function which takes in
a young adult novel and outputs a (normal adult) novel. Details are expanded is
such a perfect way that you don't mind the extra pages.
    I would happily read Starship Troopers-esque novels all day long.
    It has been the star of my current knowledge of the sci-fi genre and I would
recommend it to anyone looking for light reading or a good novel.

5. The Peace War
    Author: Vernor Vinge

    Rating: 3 - liked it.

    The Peace War presented to me as my first hard sci-fi novel. The book threw me into an unknown world in a way quite separate from Heinlein and Clarke.
    I don't think I got much from this novel, beyond a good story and a fun ride.

6. Foundation
    Author: Isaac Asimov

    Rating: 2 - it was okay. My thoughts on this book have improved with time, as I give it more thought.

    Foundation presents a wild idea - large populations can be predicted with near mathematical certainty.
    Even as a believer in determinism I cannot grasp this plot. My distaste for the plot polluted my thoughts of the novel as a whole when I was reading it, which negatively impacted my rating. On reflection I think fondly of each of the vignette-like stories through time. 
    Since I had a largely unpleasant experience reading it, I decided to take a break from sci-fi for a bit, though I return in January.
    I'd have a hard time recommending Foundation - it could only be to a very, very niche audience.

7. Talking to Strangers
    Author: Malcolm Gladwell

    Rating: 1 - didn't like it. 1 might be a harsh score, but it is accurate to say that I actively did not like this book. I don't mean that it is awful or the worst book I've read.

    Similar to 7 Habits, Talking to Strangers boils down to: "It is important to be empathetic." Also similar to 7 Habits, Gladwell uses excessive examples to prove this point.
    I understand that empathy is a big point in human interaction and the more we are exposed to it the better, but why are these works targeted at adult audiences? It would be far preferable to teach and ingrain in children empathy so that they can grow up socially competent. 
    Gladwell does discuss cases where empathy can be problematic - the Enron case being the biggest and he delves into this much more in Blink so I will leave my thoughts for that review.
    As part of my first book club meeting, I discussed Talking to Strangers with a couple of friends.
    Our discussions largely followed the trend of pointing out what felt like common sense or common knowledge but coming to conclusions which accepted that maybe (some of us) we were more reflective that others and as such we aren't the target audience.
    I have a hard time believe less reflective people would be willing to pick up this book.

    The structure, multiple stories chained together to tell an overall story of human behavior is very interesting and enjoyable. I want a different story though.

8. Circe
    Author: Madeline Miller

    Rating: 3 - liked it.

    Circe is a strong novel. I enjoyed the spin on characters I know and love. 

9. Blink
    Author: Malcolm Gladwell

    Rating: 1 - didn't like it.

    Again, Gladwell told me a story I felt I didn't need to hear in a long winded form.
    His work can be distilled to the simple idea that experts develop experience with time, and that experience is often a gut reaction.
    Normal people can also find truth in their gut reactions, sometimes they even do better following their gut than trying to think themselves to a solution.

    One of the interesting stories in Blink that I do think of regularly was a study in which experts and non-experts rated various qualities of jam flavors. 
    When non-experts were asked various gut-related questions about the jam, they closely matched the experts.
    However when the non-experts were led into thinking deeply about the flavors and asked to describe _why_ they thought what they thought, their performance dropped significantly. 
    The act of reflection actually hurt their understanding of the world. This point stood out to me as quite interesting psychologically. 
    I hardly claim to have the words or knowledge to describe its significance, but I am sure that it is.

10. Beyond Freedom & Dignity
    Author: B.F. Skinner

    Rating: 3 - liked it

    
    



