Proposal for: Linguistic Similarity Embeddings using Siamese Neural Networks.

Previous work has show the effectiveness of siamese networks at creating an n-dimensional mapping from input to output based on similarity features.
These networks exploit the same architectures of traditional neural nets, however, instead of a single input, siamese nets will take two input samples and learn to map their features to a "similar" location in the n-dimensional result space. 
A "similar location" can be defined by any reasonable distance metric: euclidean distance and cosine similarity are mostly commonly used. 

One the network learns to embed its training pairs it has built clusters of concepts. Provided strong input data, the space will be able to map new inputs it has never seen onto previously established clusters and even create entirely new clusters as it sees fit. 

Siamese networks have famously been used to perform facial recognition, where input data is separated into different angles on a single face, but recently they have been used to perform other normalization tasks such as named entity normalization in chemical and protein entities. 

I propose using siamese networks to model the similarity between words through the evolution of language. Language evolution is fluid and new words are often simply variants of old words. Using pairs of (known) new and old word pairs as input, the goal would be to discover what could potentially be other transitions we might have missed in language documentation over the years. Additionally, this work would have cross-language application. 

Using etymology databases it is possible to find the history of tens of thousands of different words across many languages. Initially the project would only be scoped to look at the history of a single language but it is possible we could better train a model to learn two child languages and one parent language (children: spanish, french, parent: latin). 

Finally, there is the possibility to convert the process into a sequence to sequence network and attempt to recreate historic versions of modern terms. 
This seq-to-seq network, if functional, could potentially make great estimates at ancient and prehistoric languages, recognizing patterns that no human could.
