Moments of my last decade.

Life has a lot of little moments that we forget as they pass, and with time, even the big moments fade out. As the decade closes, I want to look back on some of the stand out moments and events, which I might otherwise forget in the years to come.

To the best of my ability I would also like to document what I remember mattered to me.

---
2009-10:
Eight grade. 
My final year of middle school was a great year for me. 
My friend group had been well formed for two years. 
I spent most of my days talking to friends on Google Hangouts. 
In Spring I was playing Ultimate. 
This was the year I broke my right forearm (while playing Ultimate).
I enjoyed woodshop class.
I thought I would grow up and teach middle school math or physics.
In physics, we built bridges out of toothpicks - mine was par. 
I had a crush on Linda and we danced together at a couple of school dances. 

---
2010-11:
High school freshman year
I had my first kiss.
The Odyssey of the Mind group went to State level with two new members.
I thought I would grow up and teach biology, I wanted to study marine biology.
Started taking Latin and realized language is quite interesting.

---
2011-12:
High school sophomore year
This was the last year of Odyssey of the Mind.
My braces came off, and I was finally allowed to eat honey mustard onion pretzels again.
I made a goal to bike and run 1000 miles in 100 days. Between the 6 mile bike ride to school, cross country and Ultimate I didn't think this would be too challenging, until...
I sprained my right ankle playing Ultimate. After two or three weeks, I jumped back into my challenge and succeeded right on schedule.
I got my driver's permit (immediately after my birthday). This opened up my social life, since I could start to spend most days at Chris Tennent's house after school.
First got exposed to programming. Used Python for chatbots, and tried to learn C++ but couldn't find a compiler/explanation of how to actually write code. (Learned my father doesn't know _everything_.)
Dated Sofia, then decided 2012 would be a year without dating.

---
2012-13:
High school junior year
Ultimate was a big part of my life. I spent most of my time practicing and trying to wrangle together at least 8 people to show up to practices and tournaments.
Prom with Megan (late because of Ultimate tourney). 
Taught Ultimate to middle schoolers in Spring.
Worked at book store as a stock boy (first real job).
Took AP computer science and started to actually program.
In the Summer, I spent a week in the Porous NanoSilicon Lab at UCSD.

---
2013-14:
High school senior year
Started dating Madeleine.
I wrote the first essay I enjoyed on Hamlet. It was a two page exploration of a single quotation which completely ignored the prompt.
I did a WISE project, which consisted of journaling my second semester and doing independent study (I took a cybersecurity class at UC Berkeley and "interned" at TweedleTech).
My family took a 14 day cruise around Italy as my first exposure to Europe.
I was a TA for the AP CS class - started to think this computer stuff might be interesting.
College apps consumed fall semester for my friends, but I (practically) only applied to UCSD.
President of the Ultimate team.

---
2014-15:
Freshman year, starting college

1.

---
2015-16:
Sophomore year, roommates with Andy, first drink

1.

---
2016-17:
Junior year, Edinburgh
Begin teaching

1.

---
2017-18:
Senior year, Graduating undergrad

1.

---
2018-19:
Working on my Master's degree
Teaching

1.
