Fear

I am a fearful person.

This doesn't make me special. Many people, most people even, are fearful.
Nor do I feel the fears I have are particularly different than others'.

Historically, people have always feared what they don't know: strangers and strange behavior.
We can connect to what we know and what we have felt.

Similarly sympathy is significantly simpler than empathy.
Humans have a hard time understanding foreign ideas they have not experienced themselves.


I count myself as an empathetic person.
In particular, I am an educationally empathetic person.
By this I mean to say that I can connect to people who don't understand academic concepts.
Without meaning to expose too much of my god-complex, I have not struggled in school.
Failing to understand a course concept requires true empathy of me, and it is this skill that I value the most in myself.
My greatest strength is my academic aptitude, and I am able to turn that personal strength into something for others.

With this absurd aside out of the way, I feel comfortable saying that I am not an empathetic person.
There are so many parts of people that I don't understand.

I know about two microcosms of human behavior: those in the small sheltered liberal town of Orinda, and those of nerdy college shut-ins. 
Connecting with other people didn't use to feel so difficult, and maybe it now doesn't either (<- to be explored).

I fear what other people do.
I don't know how to act.
What is socially normal?

I fear being foolish.

Almost exactly one year ago, I began visiting a therapist to discuss my fears.
Lisa explained to me perhaps the most powerful concept I've ever learned.
Emotions manifest themselves physically in our bodies.
Every emotion you experience is simply the collection of physical symptoms associated with that idea.
In the same vein our names for emotions are just like colors - entirely unique to the individual.

My mother later added to this power the knowledge that anxiety and excitement result in the same experience.
I feel an elevated heart rate. I have "racing thoughts." I might be flushed. I am tense.
The difference is my thoughts in the moment. Am I dreading what comes next? Can I barely contain myself?

My thoughts are something I can control. My anxiety is under my control. Anything I feel anxious about, under a different mindset, I could be excited about.

Fear is rational, and to be expected. My fears feed my anxiety, for years unchecked.
Now my fears feed my excitement. I'm excited by my fears.
I don't know how to act, but that won't stop me from trying.
